*** MetaindeX Tutorials ***
6- Customize fields layout
In this tutorial, we'll learn how to control fields layout using perspectives
-
I will use the demo_artists catalog already imported in Tutorial 2.
Explanations might go a bit fast sometimes,
so feel free to pause the video, and breath!
First I log in MetaindeX app
I've accessed this login page by clicking on Sign-in button,
top right of MetaindeX welcome page
Using demo_artists catalog created in Tutorial 2,
I click Enter button to access catalog's contents
and I click on Alfred Hitchcock to see contents
default layout shows all fields over the whole area
I want to display only portrait, first name and family name
I'm not interested in other fields
I click on catalogs panel (top left)
and go to Perspectives tab
A perspective defines a list of fields to be displayed
and how to display them
I start by creating a new perspective
with a click on main green button
and I give it a name.
I want to use this perspective for film directors like Hitchock.
a perspective is made of several tabs
I can add a new tab clicking on the "+" button on the right
each tab is made of several sections,
stacked one over each other
and each section contains a list of fields to display
I can add a new one using "+" button in the section
when adding a new field to display, I just pick one in the list
I've chosen field portrait here
I add a new section clicking on big green button at the bottom
and I call it name, it will contain full name of the artist
and so I insert fields first_name and family_name
each section can be configured with alignment and frame visibility
I don't want first section to have a frame displayed,
just the contents
each field can also be configured with size, weight (bold,italic),
color, and name visibility
I just want the picture, and don't want to have text "portrait" behind it,
so I set field name to Hidden
same thing for the names, but I also want them
to be big and bold
so I set corresponding parameters
okay I think my perspective is ready now,
so I go to catalog contents to see it in action
I click on Enter button and access catalog's contents
I click on Alfred Hitchcock, and
I want now to apply my new perspective
I click on the gear icon, up to the contents
that shows a popup with complementary actions :
- Delete : to delete current document
- Perspectives : switch to selected perspective
click on that last one will show list of existing perspectives
plus default one
so I click on my "filmdirector" perspective to activate it
and I can see indeed that expected fields are displayed as expected
now I click on jazz guitarist Wes Montgomery
I switch again from default to my new perspective
pressing "p" key as a shortcut
let met easily switch perspective also
I can change then artists still using this perspective
now I want a specific perspective for guitarists,
and it shall be activated automatically when I open a "guitarist" artist
so I go back to Perspectives tab
in catalogs panel
and create a new perspective called "guitarist"
this perspective shall have just portrait on first tab
and guitars number on second tab
so first I add portrait
hiding section frame and field name
and then add a new tab and section to display nb_guitars field
and I want this info to be rendered blue, bold and big!
now I want to configure MetaindeX to use "guitarist" perspective when type is "guitarist"
and "filmdirector" perspective when type is "filmdirector".
for that I go to Overview panel and set "Detect perspective on field" option
I set value to field "type"
this way :
- when type=filmdirector, MetaindeX automatically applies perspective with same name ("filmdirector")
- when type=guitarist, MetaindeX apply perspective with name "guitarist"
- otherwise MetaindeX apply default perspective
let's go back to catalog contents and try this configuration
Hitchcock (filmdirector) gets indeed correct perspective applied
Marcel Pagnol (writer) gets default perspective applied as expected
and Wes Montgomery (guitarist) gets also corresponding perspective applied
well, that's it folks.
*** The End ***
see also other MetaindeX tutorials for
- statistics with Kibana
- graphs with Gephi
- and more ...